Add tutorials guidelines in the main tutorials branch (#1950)
ansys/pydpf-core: doc/source/getting_started/write_doc/guidelines_tutorials.rst

Location and naming
-------------------

New tutorials correspond to new ``.rst`` files in tutorial section folders,
for example: ``doc/source/user_guide/tutorials/section/new_tutorial.rst``

.. code-block::

    .
    ├── doc
    │   ├── source
    │   │    ├── user_guide
    │   │    │   ├── tutorials
    │   │    │        ├── section
    │   │    │             ├── new_tutorial.rst

You must also add a new card in the ``index.rst`` file for the tutorial section as well as modify
its toctree. The card must include:

- a tutorial title,
- a short description,
- badges for the applicable solvers,
- a link (in this case, the reference tag) to the tutorial file.

.. topic:: Card example

    .. card:: Tutorial title
       :text-align: center
       :width: 25%

       Short description of the tutorial

       +++
       :bdg-mapdl:`MAPDL` :bdg-lsdyna:`LS-DYNA` :bdg-fluent:`FLUENT` :bdg-cfx:`CFX`

Structure
---------

The tutorial is divided in two main parts:

- :ref:`Preamble<ref_guidelines_tutorial_header>`
- :ref:`Content<ref_guidelines_tutorial_content>`

.. _ref_guidelines_tutorial_header:

Header
^^^^^^

> This first part is essential for clarity, organization and usability of the tutorial. It establishes the tutorials
> purpose, making it easy to understand what is going to be explained and reference it within the other parts of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This first part is essential for clarity, organization and usability of the tutorial. It establishes the purpose of the tutorial, making it easier to understand what is going to be explained and reference it within the other parts of
```

the documentation.

The header must have :

- a reference tag,
- a tutorial title,
- any substitution text for references to the PyDPF-Core library used in the tutorial,
- a short description (same as for the tutorial card in the tutorial section),
- an introduction,
- download buttons for Python script and Jupyter notebook versions of the tutorial.

.. literalinclude:: tutorial_structure_template.rst
    :end-before: First Step

> The main PyDPF-Core library references are available already defined in the ``doc/source/links_and_refs.rst`` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main PyDPF-Core library references are available in the ``doc/source/links_and_refs.rst`` file.
```

> To employ them, you just need to use the substitution text as usual:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a reference, use the substitution text as usual:
```

.. code-block::

    .. _ref_tutorial_template:

    ==============
    Tutorial title
    ==============

    Here some text. Here we use the |MeshedRegion| substitution text

For more information about the predefined references, see the
:download:`links and references file <../../links_and_refs.rst>`.

.. _ref_guidelines_tutorial_content:

Content
^^^^^^^

> A tutorial goal is to explain how to perform a task step by step and understand the underlying concepts.
> Thus, its structure must prioritize clarity, simplicity, and logical flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of a tutorial is to present a feature or explain how to perform a common task step by step while explaining a behavior or underlying concepts.
Thus, its structure must prioritize clarity, simplicity, and logical flow.
```

Sections
~~~~~~~~

A well-organized tutorial breaks down complex tasks into manageable steps, presenting information incrementally
to avoid overwhelming the user. It combines concise explanations with actionable instructions, ensuring users
can follow along easily while building their understanding.

> Thus, the sections of the content are the steps themselves. Globally those steps looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, the sections of the content are the steps themselves. These steps are generally similar to:
```

> #. Get data, define DPF objects that contains the data;
> #. One or more steps where you manipulate, handles the data/ DPF objects;
> #. Conclusion, here is the final step where the tutorial goal is accomplished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Get some data and create DPF objects based on the data;
#. One or more steps where you manipulate the data or the DPF objects;
#. A final step where the objective of tutorial is reached.
```

For example:

A tutorial goal is to explains how to plot a mesh using PyDPF-Core.
The steps to achieve this task are:

#. Import a result file;
#. Extract the mesh;
#. Plot the mesh.

To create those section, underline it with the appropriate characters (here: ``-``).

.. code-block::

    Import result file
    ------------------

    First, you ...

    Extract the mesh
    ----------------

    Then, you extract ...

    Plot the mesh
    -------------

    Finally, you plot ...

Tabs
~~~~

> You must use tabs in the case the tutorial is applicable fore more then one solver and the implementations are
> different for each of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must use tabs when a step requires a solver-specific implementation.
```

> These tabs looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The syntax for creating tabs is:
```

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: MAPDL

        Explanation 1 ...

        .. jupyter-execute::

            # Code block 1

    .. tab-item:: LSDYNA

        Explanation 2 ...

        .. jupyter-execute::

            # Code block 2

    .. tab-item:: Fluent

        Explanation 3 ...

        .. jupyter-execute::

            # Code block 3

    .. tab-item:: CFX

        Explanation 4 ...

        .. jupyter-execute::

            # Code block 4

> You can also use tabs if you want to show different approaches to one step and it would be more clear
> to have the code blocks in different tabs. You can see an example of this case in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use tabs if you want to show different approaches to one step and it having the code blocks in different tabs is clearer. You can see an example of this in the
```

:ref:`ref_tutorials_animate_time` tutorial.

Code blocks
~~~~~~~~~~~

The tutorials must have code blocks where you show how you actually implement the code.
In addition to the guidelines presented here, you must also follow the `Coding style <dev_guide_coding_style_>`_
guide to ensure that all code looks the same across the project.

- Use the `jupyter sphinx <jupyter_sphinx_ext_>`_ extension to show code blocks. It executes embedded code in
  a Jupyter kernel and embeds outputs of that code in the document:

.. grid:: 2
    :gutter: 2
    :padding: 2
    :margin: 2

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`check-circle-fill` **Correct**

        .. code-block::

            .. jupyter-execute::

                # This is a executable code block
                from ansys.dpf import core as dpf

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`x-circle-fill` **Incorrect**

        .. code-block::

            .. code-block::

                # This is a simple code block
                from ansys.dpf import core as dpf

> - Every code implementation must be commented:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use comments within a code block to clarify the purpose of a line:
```

Author: ```suggestion
- You must use comments within a code block to clarify the purpose of a line:
```

.. grid:: 2
    :gutter: 2
    :padding: 2
    :margin: 2

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`check-circle-fill` **Correct**

        .. code-block::

            # Define the model
            model = dpf.Model()

            # Get the stress results
            stress_fc = model.results.stress.eval()

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`x-circle-fill` **Incorrect**

        .. code-block::

            model = dpf.Model()
            stress_fc = model.results.stress.eval()

- You must split your code in several parts so you can make explanations between them:

.. grid:: 2
    :gutter: 2
    :padding: 2
    :margin: 2

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`check-circle-fill` **Correct**

>         First explanation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        First explanation for a code block and its output
```

        .. code-block::

            # Code comment 1
            code1

>         Second explanation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Explanation for a second code block and its output
```

        .. code-block::

            # Code comment 2
            code2

    .. grid-item-card::

>         :octicon:`x-circle-fill` **Incorrect**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        :octicon:`x-circle-fill` **Incorrect**
        
        A single broad explanation for two steps with outputs mixed together
```

        .. code-block::

            # First explanation
            # Code comment 1
            code1

            # Second explanation
            # Code comment 2
            code2

> - When using a PyDPF-Core object or method you must use key arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When using a PyDPF-Core object or method you must name arguments:
```

            stress_fc = model_1.results.stress.eval()

- Avoid naming the variables with the same name as an argument or an API. You can get inspirations from the
  tutorials available at :ref:`ref_tutorials`.

.. grid:: 2
    :gutter: 2
    :padding: 2
    :margin: 2

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`check-circle-fill` **Correct**

        .. code-block::

            # Define the result file path
            result_file_path = '/tmp/file.rst'

            # Define the DataSources object
            ds = dpf.DataSources(result_path=result_file_path)

            # Create a Model
            my_model = dpf.Model(data_sources=ds)

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`x-circle-fill` **Incorrect**

        .. code-block::

            # Define the result file path
            result_path = '/tmp/file.rst'

            # Define the DataSources object
            data_sources = dpf.DataSources(result_path=result_path)

            # Create a Model
            model = dpf.Model(data_sources=data_sources)

Text formating
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In addition to the guidelines presented here, you must also follow the `Documentation style <dev_guide_doc_style_>`_

> guide to ensure that all the tutorials looks the same across the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
guide to ensure that the tutorials follow a coherent style across the project.
```

- When quoting APIs in the text you must always use a reference to redirect it to the API reference

.. grid:: 2
    :gutter: 2
    :padding: 2
    :margin: 2

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`check-circle-fill` **Correct**

        .. code-block::

           Here we use the |MeshedRegion| substitution text

        **Rendered text:**

>         Here some text. Here we use the |MeshedRegion| substitution text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Here is some text. Here we use the |MeshedRegion| substitution text
```

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`x-circle-fill` **Incorrect**

        .. code-block::

>             Here we don't use the MeshedRegion substitution text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Here we do not use the MeshedRegion substitution text
```

        **Rendered text:**

>         Here some text. Here we don't use the MeshedRegion substitution text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Here is some text. Here we don't use the MeshedRegion substitution text
```

> - When enumerating something you must use bullet lists:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use bullet lists when enumerating items:
```

.. grid:: 2
    :gutter: 2
    :padding: 2
    :margin: 2

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`check-circle-fill` **Correct**

        .. code-block::

            This operator accepts as arguments:

            - A Result
            - An Operator
            - A FieldsContainer

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`x-circle-fill` **Incorrect**

        .. code-block::

            This operator accepts a Result, an Operator or a
            FieldsContainer as arguments.

> - If the enumeration represent a order of topics the list must be numbered:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use a numbered list if items are ordered:
```

.. grid:: 2
    :gutter: 2
    :padding: 2
    :margin: 2

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`check-circle-fill` **Correct**

        .. code-block::

            To extract the mesh you need to follow those steps:

            #. Get the result file;
            #. Create a Model;
            #. Get the MeshedRegion.

        The ``#.`` renders as a numbered list.

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`x-circle-fill` **Incorrect**

        .. code-block::

            To extract the mesh you need to follow those steps:

            - Get the result file;
            - Create a Model;
            - Get the MeshedRegion.

> - If you need to develop explanations for each item of the list, first, you enumerate and reference them. Then, you
>   explore each of them separately in sub headings.

Author: ```suggestion
- If you need to develop explanations for each item of the list, first, enumerate and reference them. Then,
	  explore each of them separately in sub headings.
```

.. grid:: 2
    :gutter: 2
    :padding: 2
    :margin: 2

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`check-circle-fill` **Correct**

        .. code-block::

            Section title
            -------------

>             Here, we explain the two following items:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            This section presents two items:
```

            - :ref:`Item 1 <ref_tutorial_name_item_1>`
            - :ref:`Content<ref_tutorial_name_item_2>`

            .. _ref_tutorial_name_item_1:

            Item 1
            ^^^^^^

>             Development text and code blocks 1 ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Presentation of the first item...
```

            .. _ref_tutorial_name_item_2:

            Item 2
            ^^^^^^

>             Development text and code blocks 2 ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Presentation of the second item...
```

    .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`x-circle-fill` **Incorrect**

        .. code-block::

            Section title
            -------------

>             Here, we explain the two following items:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            This section presents two items:
```

            - Item 1
            - Item 2

            Item 1
            ^^^^^^

>             Development text and code blocks 1 ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Presentation of the first item...
```

            Item 2
            ^^^^^^

>             Development text and code blocks 2 ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Presentation of the second item...
```

        .. code-block::

            Section title
            -------------

>             Here, we explain the two following items:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            This section presents two items:
```

            - Item 1

>             Development text and code blocks 1 ...
> 
> 
>             - Item 2
>             Development text and code blocks 2 ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Presentation of the first item...

            - Item 2
            Presentation of the second item...
```
